There are a lot of positive
things we can do online.
We can talk to friends and
family.
We can make purchases and
conduct business all from behind
our computers or mobile devices.
But online interactions aren't
always safe.
There are always inherent risks
in being active online, so it's
important to be aware of the
common scams that are out there.
One such scam is hishing your
ersonal information is a
valuable asset to people who
want to steal it in order to
sell it to others or to
imersonate you online in order
to access your various accounts.
Much like a common method for
catching fish is to put bait on
a hook so the fish will want to
eat it, fishers have many
different tyes of bait they use
to try to fool people into
sharing information like their
passwords, credit card
information, an other private
data.
They may send you an e-mail or
an instant message through a
social media site or an online
game you're playing.
They may retend to be someone
else or make it look like
they're an employee of a site
you use, like a bank or your
Internet service provider and
ask you to click links to
complete a task under the guise
of rotecting your information or
making you think you're in some
kind of trouble.
If you click their links or give
them information, they've hooked
you like a fish.
O let's take a look at 4
ractices you can follow to avoid
being hooked by these scammers.
First, be cautious of susicious
messages.
Scammers try to make their
messages look official and
familiar to make you trust them,
often asking for you to confirm
personal information or account
asswords.
Examine messages carefully and
avoid sharing information over
messages or e-mail.
If you receive a message
claiming to be from a company
you've shopped with in the past,
asking you to reply with a
password or other information,
don't do it.
Instead, go to that company's
website directly from your
browser and log into your
account.
If they really need information
from you, you'll most likely see
a message when you log in.
Alternately, call the company's
customer service line yourself.
Econd.
Look for signs that a webage is
safe and secure.
Before you provide credit card
information or enter a password
or other ersonal info, Take a
look at the address bar in your
browser and make sure you either
see a lock icon or that the web
address starts with HTT, not
just HTT.
The lock and HTT indicate that
the site is secure and
encrypted, so it's highly
unlikely your information can be
intercepted.
On top of that, make sure you're
on the right webpage.
Cammers sometimes set U websites
with addresses very close to
legitimate sites and even
designed their scam sites to
look like those legitimate
sites.
Oftentimes they'll missell the
company's name or use a
different domain address.
For example, they might have
registered a net version of a
company's com address.
Always check the address to make
sure you're on the right page.
Third Kee your web browser and
oerating system U to date.
You can turn on automatic
updates to make sure the latest
software releases are
automatically installed on your
computer, which means you'll
always receive the latest
security udates that hel rotect
your computer and 4th.
Consider installing antimalware
software on your computer.
This is secial software designed
to protect your computer from
malicious software and hackers.
Ometimes scammers trick people
into installing what looks like
legitimate software, but turns
out to be software that tracks
and steals data.
Antimalware software can
identify these malicious rograms
and delete them from your
computer.
Again, with all of its benefits,
there are still always risks to
being online O you'll always
want to stay vigilant and
cautious to rotect yourself from
hishing scams.